1)What are the benefits of using CSS?
ANS: CSS handles the look and feel part of a web page. Using CSS, you can control the color of the text, the style of fonts, the spacing between paragraphs, how columns are sized and laid out, etc. CSS saves time − You can write CSS once and then reuse the same sheet in multiple HTML pages.



2)What are the disadvantages of CSS? 
ANS: There could be cross-browser issues while using CSS. There are multiple levels of CSS such as CSS, CSS 2, CSS 3. This can create confusion for non-developers and beginners.




3)What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
ANS: Unlike CSS2, which was comprised of a single document, CSS3 has its specifications divided into many individual modules, which makes CSS3 a whole lot easier to handle. With CSS3, the designers can now use special fonts, like those available in Google Fonts and Typecast.




4) Name a few CSS style components.
ANS: Font-size.
     Width.
    	Background-color.
    	Color.
	    Border.
 
   Example:  <style>
		             	color: red;
			             height: 50px:
		             	width: 50px;
		            </style>




5) What do you understand by CSS opacity? 
ANS: The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.





6) How can the background color of an element be changed? 
ANS: To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.
Example:  <style>
		           	background-color: orange;
	       	 </style>




7) How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
ANS: To control the repetition of an image in the background, use the background-repeat property. You can use no-repeat value for the background-repeat property if you do not want to repeat an image, in this case, the image will display only once.
Example:  <style>
		          	background-repeat: no-repeat;
		        </style>






8) What is the use of the background-position property?
ANS: The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image. Tip: By default, a background-image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally.





9) Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
ANS: The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest of the page, or is fixed.





10) Why should background and color be used as separate properties? 
ANS: There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.





11) How to center block elements using CSS1?
ANS: With css the way to center anything that's a block level element is with the margin property. One of the values of margin is auto and by setting auto on the left and right margin our block level element will center itself.
Example: <style>
		         margin : auto;
	        </style>





12) How to maintain the CSS specifications? 
ANS:  The CSS specifications are Maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium(W3C).





13) What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
ANS: CSS can be added to HTML documents in 3 ways:-
•	Inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML elements.
•	Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section.
•	External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file.





14) What is embedded style sheets?
ANS: An embedded style sheet is declared within the <head> element of an XHTML document. It applies to the whole document, rather than just one element. Each style declaration (or CSS rule) gets applied to everything in the document that matches that rule.





15) What are the external style sheets?
ANS: An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.





16) What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
ANS: 
-->Advantage :
The external style sheet is generally used when you want to make changes on multiple pages. It is ideal for this condition because it facilitates you to change the look of the entire web site by changing just one file. It uses the <link> tag on every pages and the <link> tag should be put inside the head section.

-->Disadvantage:
Your pages may not be rendered correctly until the external CSS is loaded.
Uploading or linking to multiple CSS files can increase your site's download time.





17) What is the meaning of the CSS selector? 
ANS: A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.





18) What are the media types allowed by CSS?
ANS: 
Continuous or paged.
Visual, audio, speech, or tactile.
Grid (for character grid devices), or bitmap.
Interactive (for devices that allow user interaction), or static (for those that do not).
All (includes all media types).





19) What is the rule set? 
ANS: A table of instructions used by a controlled interface to determine what data is allowable and how the data is handled between interconnected systems.

